Josh Kohring

Dr. Scannell

5 May 2014

Final Project



Goal : The goal of this project was to buid a dataset of names and hometowns of former United States 
Navy Seals. By using the unix tools we learned in class, the data was manipulated to form a functional
 json file with the intention of showing potential trends in where some America's greatest warriors 
are born. 



Process: The first step was to try and assemble the data of names and hometowns. To acquire 
names, getNames.sh was used to grab a wikipedia page from the web. By using egrep and sed tools, the 
data was simplified into a simple text file of a list of former Navy Seals. With further research, the
 hometowns were hand added to the text file as well as the coordinates of where these towns are. 
To try to make the dataset meaningful as possible, outside research was also done to find other names 
of former SEALs that were not included in the wikipedia list. All of their information is added by 
hand. This file is attached as Operators.txt. The coordinates had to be switched in order to match 
geojson format. This as well as other manipulations were done in order to match the output recquired 
for an operational json file (tested with GEOJsonLint). The script used for this task is attached as 
Op2Json.sh. The json file maps a point at each of the hometowns and will show the SEALs name as well 
as the name of the town or city. The json file is attached as FinalOperators.json. 



Results: The results of this project were measured by counting the number of former SEALs that came 
from each city. This data was obtained by running the getCityData.sh script on the Operators.txt 
file. It counts and sorts how many times each city appears in the file and outputs this information 
into a file called OperatorCities.txt. The same was done for the home states with the script 
getStateData.sh and the result is outputted to the file OperatorCities.txt. While I tried to make 
the data size as large as possible through a lot of snooping around, the dataset is still a small 
65 people as this type of information is not easily accessed, and this was expected to be a problem 
before the project began. Regardless, some trends can still be seen. Houston, and Columbus, Ohio 
both had the highest frequency of former SEALs at 3. Salem, Massachusettes; Jacksonville, Florida; 
and Brooklynn, New York rounded off the top 5 all with 2 former SEALs each. More interestingly, the 
frequency of states was also analyzed. From highest to lowest: California 10, Florida 7, Ohio 5, 
Massachusettes 5, New York 4. This data suggests that people most likely to succeed at becoming Navy 
SEALs live closer to the oceans as the coastal states see the highest frequency of former operators. 
There are plenty of exceptions to this data, however, but that can be expected. Many former SEALs 
will vouch that there is no telling who will make it and that people from all walks of life have 
been known to make it through. 



Conclusions: This data, although a small representation, showed what I expected to find in that while
 there may be a slight trend in areas with the most operators, there really is no telling where the
 next SEAL might come from. To improve on this project I could get a larger dataset or answer a 
different question entirely about different branches of the military or any occupation that exists. 